what is tokenomics? tokenomics dictate the supply
and demand characteristics of a cryptocurrency
but before diving into tokenomics let's
take a look at what a token means.
so what is a token? a token is a digital unit of
a cryptocurrency that is either used as a specific
asset or it represents a particular use on the
blockchain. tokens can have multiple use cases
but the most common ones are as security, utility
or governance tokens. cryptocurrencies and tokens
built on blockchains have preset algorithmically
created issuance schedules. this means that we can
predict with quite some accuracy how many coins
will have been created by a certain day and time,
though it is possible for most crypto
assets to have this issuance scheduled
altered it would require quite a bit of effort
thus changing this schedule is very difficult.
this provides some predictability and
security for token holders in a way that
is much more predictable and stable than how
governments create and issue their currencies.
so why is tokenomics important when investing in
cryptocurrency? understanding the factors that
will impact either supply or demand are of vital
importance to both speculators and investors.
perhaps the most important factor is to understand
how the digital currency will be used is there a
clear link between the platform or service
being built and the asset itself if so there
is a strong chance that a growing service will
require purchases that increase usage and demand
thus increasing the price. if this is not the
case what can the token be used for? other
important questions include how many coins or
tokens currently exist? how many will exist in
the future and when will they be created? who
owns the coins? are there some set aside to be
released in the future for developers? have
a large number of coins been lost, burned,
deleted or are somehow unusable? tokenomics is
also helpful as guidance to understand how much an
asset might be worth in the future. for example,
many people new to crypto might think that any
coin could become as valuable as bitcoin even
though tokenomics may prove this to be impossible.
as an example let's look at two coins: bitcoin
cash and tron. bitcoin cash has the same total
supply as bitcoin so thinking that it may become
as valuable as the world's biggest cryptocurrency
could be possible. however with more than
100 billion tron already created in order
to break a few thousand dollars per coin tron
would need to become the most valuable business
in the history of the world. the odds of that
happening may be a bit off. while these questions
may seem to require complex answers they do
provide an extra way to view crypto assets and to
help understand whether one asset is more likely
to have a great value and future than another.